en, zh: Add docs about using BR to backup/restore with PV(NFS as an example) (#952)
pingcap/docs-tidb-operator: en/backup-to-pv-using-br.md

title: Back up Data to PV Using BR
summary: Learn how to back up data to Persistent Volume (PV) using BR.
---

# Back up Data to PV Using BR

This document describes how to back up the data of a TiDB cluster in Kubernetes to [Persistent Volume](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes/) (PV). [BR](https://pingcap.com/docs/stable/br/backup-and-restore-tool/) is used to get the backup of the TiDB cluster, and then the backup data is sent to PV.

PVs in this documentation can be any [Kubernetes supported Persistent Volume types](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes/#types-of-persistent-volumes). This document uses NFS as an example PV type.

The backup method described in this document is implemented using Custom Resource Definition (CRD) in TiDB Operator v1.1 or later versions.

## Ad-hoc backup

Ad-hoc backup supports both full backup and incremental backup. It describes the backup by creating a `Backup` Custom Resource (CR) object. TiDB Operator performs the specific backup operation based on this `Backup` object. If an error occurs during the backup process, TiDB Operator does not retry, and you need to handle this error manually.

> This document provides examples in which the data of the `demo1` TiDB cluster in the `test1` Kubernetes namespace is backed up to NFS.

Author: I think line 10 explains the relationship between PV and NFS.

> This document provides examples in which the data of the `demo1` TiDB cluster in the `test1` Kubernetes namespace is backed up to NFS.

Reviewer: Oh yes. Sorry I missed that line.

    ```shell
    kubectl get bk -n test1 -owide
    ```

More descriptions of fields in the `Backup` CR:

* `.spec.metadata.namespace`: The namespace where the `Backup` CR is located.
* `.spec.tikvGCLifeTime`: The temporary `tikv_gc_life_time` time setting during the backup. Defaults to 72h.

    Before the backup begins, if the `tikv_gc_life_time` setting in the TiDB cluster is smaller than `spec.tikvGCLifeTime` set by the user, TiDB Operator adjusts the value of `tikv_gc_life_time` to the value of `spec.tikvGCLifeTime`. This operation makes sure that the backup data is not garbage-collected by TiKV.

    After the backup, no matter whether the backup is successful or not, as long as the previous `tikv_gc_life_time` is smaller than `.spec.tikvGCLifeTime`, TiDB Operator will try to set `tikv_gc_life_time` to the previous value.

    In extreme cases, if TiDB Operator fails to access the database, TiDB Operator cannot automatically recover the value of `tikv_gc_life_time` and treats the backup as failed. At this time, you can view `tikv_gc_life_time` of the current TiDB cluster using the following statement:

    {{< copyable "sql" >}}

    ```sql

>     select VARIABLE_NAME, VARIABLE_VALUE from mysql.tidb where VARIABLE_NAME like "tikv_gc_life_time";

Author: 👌

    > **Note:**
    >
    > To use the table filter to exclude `db.table`, you need to add the `*.*` rule to include all tables first. For example:

    ```
    tableFilter:
    - "*.*"
    - "!db.table"
    ```

## Scheduled full backup

You can set a backup policy to perform scheduled backups of the TiDB cluster, and set a backup retention policy to avoid excessive backup items. A scheduled full backup is described by a custom `BackupSchedule` CR object. A full backup is triggered at each backup time point. Its underlying implementation is the ad-hoc full backup.

### Prerequisites for scheduled full backup

The prerequisites for the scheduled full backup is the same with the [prerequisites for ad-hoc backup](#prerequisites-for-ad-hoc-backup).

### Process of scheduled full backup

1. Create the `BackupSchedule` CR, and back up cluster data as described below:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    kubectl apply -f backup-schedule-nfs.yaml
    ```

>     The content of `backup-scheduler-aws-s3.yaml` is as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The content of `backup-schedule-nfs.yaml` is as follows:
```

    * `spec.br.checksum`: Whether to verify the files after the backup is completed. Defaults to `true`.
    * `spec.br.timeAgo`: Backs up the data before `timeAgo`. If the parameter value is not specified (empty by default), it means backing up the current data. It supports data formats such as "1.5h" and "2h45m". See [ParseDuration](https://golang.org/pkg/time/#ParseDuration) for more information.
    * `spec.br.options`: The extra BR argument supported since TiDB Operator v1.1.6. It accepts an array of strings. This could be used to specify the last backup timestamp `--lastbackupts` for incremental backup.

    This example backs up all data in the TiDB cluster to NFS.

2. After creating the `Backup` CR, use the following command to check the backup status:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    kubectl get bk -n test1 -owide
    ```

More descriptions of fields in the `Backup` CR:

* `.spec.metadata.namespace`: The namespace where the `Backup` CR is located.
* `.spec.tikvGCLifeTime`: The temporary `tikv_gc_life_time` time setting during the backup. Defaults to 72h.

>     Before the backup begins, if the `tikv_gc_life_time` setting in the TiDB cluster is smaller than `spec.tikvGCLifeTime` set by the user, TiDB Operator adjusts the value of `tikv_gc_life_time` to the value of `spec.tikvGCLifeTime`. This operation makes sure that the backup data is not garbage-collected by TiKV.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Before the backup begins, if the `tikv_gc_life_time` setting in the TiDB cluster is smaller than `spec.tikvGCLifeTime` set by the user, TiDB Operator [adjusts the value of `tikv_gc_life_time`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/dumpling-overview#tidb-gc-settings-when-exporting-a-large-volume-of-data) to the value of `spec.tikvGCLifeTime`. This operation makes sure that the backup data is not garbage-collected by TiKV.
```

    After the backup, no matter whether the backup is successful or not, as long as the previous `tikv_gc_life_time` is smaller than `.spec.tikvGCLifeTime`, TiDB Operator will try to set `tikv_gc_life_time` to the previous value.

    In extreme cases, if TiDB Operator fails to access the database, TiDB Operator cannot automatically recover the value of `tikv_gc_life_time` and treats the backup as failed. At this time, you can view `tikv_gc_life_time` of the current TiDB cluster using the following statement:

    {{< copyable "sql" >}}

    ```sql
    SELECT VARIABLE_NAME, VARIABLE_VALUE FROM mysql.tidb WHERE VARIABLE_NAME LIKE "tikv_gc_life_time";
    ```

>     In the output of the command above, if the value of `tikv_gc_life_time` is still larger than expected (10m by default), it means TiDB Operator failed to automatically recover the value. Therefore, you need to set `tikv_gc_life_time` back to the previous value manually:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    In the output of the command above, if the value of `tikv_gc_life_time` is still larger than expected (10m by default), it means TiDB Operator failed to automatically recover the value. Therefore, you need to [set `tikv_gc_life_time`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/dumpling-overview#tidb-gc-settings-when-exporting-a-large-volume-of-data) back to the previous value manually:
```

- `.spec.from.port`: The port of the TiDB cluster to be backed up.
- `.spec.from.user`: The accessing user of the TiDB cluster to be backed up.
- `.spec.from.tidbSecretName`: The secret containing the password of the `.spec.from.user` in the TiDB cluster.
- `.spec.from.tlsClientSecretName`: The secret of the certificate used during the backup.

    If [TLS](enable-tls-between-components.md) is enabled for the TiDB cluster, but you do not want to back up data using the `${cluster_name}-cluster-client-secret` as described in [Enable TLS between TiDB Components](enable-tls-between-components.md), you can use the `.spec.from.tlsClientSecretName` parameter to specify a secret for the backup. To generate the secret, run the following command:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    kubectl create secret generic ${secret_name} --namespace=${namespace} --from-file=tls.crt=${cert_path} --from-file=tls.key=${key_path} --from-file=ca.crt=${ca_path}
    ```

    > **Note:**
    >
    > If TiDB Operator >= v1.1.7 && TiDB >= v4.0.8, `tikv_gc_life_time` will be adjusted by BR automatically, so you can omit `spec.from`.

> - `.spec.local.prefix`: This field is used to make up the path of the remote storage: `local://${.spec.local.volumeMount.mountPath}/${.spec.local.prefix}/`. This field is suggested.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `.spec.local.prefix`: This field is used to make up the path of the remote storage: `local://${.spec.local.volumeMount.mountPath}/${.spec.local.prefix}/`. It is recommended to configure this field.
```
